# IBM-Data-Professional-Capstone
## Introduction
The setting up of a new business establishment is always a headache for new business owners. Conventional thinking is that location would determine the success or failure of a new retail outlet. In this case that we will be looking into, the context would be a budding entrepreneur looking to set up his first cafe in the city of New York.

## Data
FourSquare API has kindly provided 2 kinds of data which will be useful for our analysis. The first is geographical coordinates in the form of latitude and longitude. We will be using these coordinates to numerically define the addresses of locations of interest which we are analyzing. The second is pricing data which is given in a categorical form. Each establishment is ranked by price tier ranging from 1 to 5. We will be using this as a proxy to measuring the pricing power of cafes.

## Methodology
For the main machine learning process, I have opted for the use of unsupervised learning methods. This is because as I do not know what to expect of my datapoints, I am forced to leave the learning and discovery to Machine Learning methods. The core method used for this analysis is kMeans Clustering as the datapoints are generally well-distributed rather than differing in density across locations. Hence, kMeans clustering is sufficent given these sets of data.\
\
Once kMeans clustering has divided up the cafe dataset into distinct cluster regions, overall pricing power of all cafes located within the cluster region is approximated by calculating the mean value of price tiers. If the results are inconclusive, a further scatter plot of datapoints were be done again. This time however, the points that will be plotted are cafes of higher price tiers. This is to discern if within each cluster, is there still a preference for certain locations despite the overall cluster having low pricing power.

## Results & Discussions
Of the 6 clusters created, only 1 cluster showed meaningful increase in pricing power. That would be cluster 0 which recorded a mean pricing tier of 1.33. The rest ranged from 1.1 to 1.2. However, we must consider that cluster 0 has a very small sample of cafe datapoints. Hence, a few high price tier cafes could artificially inflate the mean value of pricing power. Clusters 2 and 3 are where majority of cafes are situated. We note from our datasets that most cafes charged low at price tier 1 but a significant number of cafes charged higher. Hence, further scatterplot was done ti remove the noise of lower-priced cafes. The results showed that higher-priced cafes concentrated around the central financial district of New York. This makes sense since cafes would want to leverage on the higher footfall of the central area, along with the fact that many customers at that region would be of higher income groups and could afford paying a higher price. However, in view of the fact that majority of cafes still charged low, it is likely competition due to oversaturation of cafes locating themselves at the central region, negated much of the increased pricing power that cafes should in theory benefit from. With this in mind, cafes were better off situating themselves at cluster 0 since there appears to be a balance of low competition but slightly lower footfall, being situated adjacent but not directly on the financial district. However, we notice that cafes there were able to charge higher. Hence, setting up a cafe at cluster 0 might be a profitable venture.\
\
We also noted that few cafes were situated in the surrounding suburbs. Cluster 4 adn 5 in fact were lone cafes. In theory, the lack of competition should greatly elevate their pricing powers. However, a combined mean calculation of outlier datapoints suggest poor pricing power in fact. This could possibly be due to the fact that residents there are of lower income groups than people staying in the central city area. Hence, there is a ceiling to how high cafes can charge.\

## Conclusion
In light of the findings of this analysis, it is advisable that a would-be cafe entrepreneur situate his new cafe at cluster 0. However, from the analysis, other qualitative factors are likely to play significant role in affecting pricing power of cafes, or else cafes in the clusters 0, 2 and 3 would have charged higher solely based on location. Further studies could concentrate on analysing higher tier cafes to identify what attributes (e.g. Parking Space, Wheelchair Access, Takeout Option, Payment Methods) allow such cafes to protect their ability to charge higher prices.
